Update credentials.md (#841)
DIVD-NL/web-csirt: credentials.md

---
# How we deal with leaked credentials

> The existence of leaked credentials is an ever-growing issue. Usernames and passwords are being stolen through malware, phishing or hacking. Afterwards, the leaked credentials are sold, traded and exchanged on a massive scale. DIVD has taken it upon ourselves to inform victims of cybercrime, not only those with vulnerable systems but also those who have their credentials leaked online.

Reviewer: Ik vind ‘issue’ te zwak. Dit is echt eeb ‘problem’.

> The existence of leaked credentials is an ever-growing issue. Usernames and passwords are being stolen through malware, phishing or hacking. Afterwards, the leaked credentials are sold, traded and exchanged on a massive scale. DIVD has taken it upon ourselves to inform victims of cybercrime, not only those with vulnerable systems but also those who have their credentials leaked online.

Reviewer 2: " DIVD has taken it upon ourselves" 3e persoon / 1e persoon

> The scale of this problem is evident in the rising numbers linked to cases involving stolen credentials:

Reviewer: Scale is iets anders dan growth.

Our first case in 2020, ([DIVD-2020-00013](/DIVD-2020-00013)) dealt with "only" 386 stolen credentials, the [second case](/DIVD-2021-00004), in 2021, also dealt with a small number of approximately 100 credentials. However, the [Warehouse bot case](/DIVD-2021-00012), cause us to quickly level, when we needed to notify ~2.5M email addresses of a breach, and the [next case](/DIVD-2021-00015) had a similar number.
[Operation Endgame](/DIVD-2024-00019) caused us to level up again, with approximately 18M credentials involved. Shortly followed by [case DIVD-2024-00022](/DIVD-2024-00022) with a whopping 1.2 **billion** credentials from stealer logs and even more from combo lists.

## Practical problems

### Email

> We can't send large volumes of emails. Emailing millions or billions of addresses (of which a large portion is no longer active) will clog our email system and get us quickly on the "known spammers" list of large email providers, effectively hurting the rest of our operation.

Reviewer: Can’t is te zwak vind ik.

> It is impossible for us to sent these large volumes of emails. Emailing millions or billions of addresses (of which a large portion is no longer active) will clog our email system and get us quickly on the "known spammers" list of large email providers, effectively hurting the rest of our operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is impossible for us to send these large volumes of emails. Emailing millions or billions of addresses (of which a large portion is no longer active) will clog our email system and get us quickly on the "known spammers" list of large email providers, effectively hurting the rest of our operation.
```

Sent met een t is verleden tijd. Dit is tegenwoordige tijd.

> Managing a high volume of emails requires a specialized skill set, there are companies that handle this kind of distribution. We've had discussions with these providers, and sending such large volumes of email can be quite expensive, in the range of five figures. As a non-profit organization run by volunteers, we simply don't have the budget for this kind of expenditure, and even if we did, we wouldn't be willing to allocate those funds in this manner. (If you are willing to [donate](https://www.divd.nl/donate) that kind of money, we can think of better ways to utilize it). Additionally, since we lack explicit consent from the recipients of these emails, these service providers are hesitant to work with us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Managing a high volume of emails requires a specialized skill set, there are companies that handle this kind of distribution. We've had discussions with these providers, and sending such large volumes of email can be quite expensive, in the range of five figures. As a non-profit organization run by volunteers, we simply don't have the budget for this kind of expenditure, and even if we did, we wouldn't be willing to allocate those funds in this manner. (If you are willing to [donate](https://www.divd.nl/donate) that kind of money, we can think of better ways to utilize it). Additionally, since we, by nature, do not have up front contant consent from the recipients of these emails, these service providers are hesitant to work with us.
```

> Thankfully, there are companies that handle the distribution of large volumes of emails. Managing such a high volume of email requires a specialized skill set. We've had discussions with these providers, and sending such large volumes of email can be quite expensive, in the range of five figures. As a non-profit organization run by volunteers, we simply don't have the budget for this kind of expenditure, and even if we did, we wouldn't be willing to allocate those funds in this manner. (If you are willing to [donate](https://www.divd.nl/donate) that kind of money, we can think of better ways to utilize it). Additionally, since we lack explicit consent from the recipients of these emails, these service providers are hesitant to work with us.

Reviewer: Niet `Thankfully` want ook deze diensten zijn geen oplossing. Te duur en ze willen on niet. En dit zijn de bedrijven die reclame mailen.

> Managing a high volume of emails requires a specialized skill set, there are companies that handle this kind of distribution. We've had discussions with these providers, and sending such large volumes of email can be quite expensive, in the range of five figures. As a non-profit organization run by volunteers, we simply don't have the budget for this kind of expenditure, and even if we did, we wouldn't be willing to allocate those funds in this manner. (If you are willing to [donate](https://www.divd.nl/donate) that kind of money, we can think of better ways to utilize it). Additionally, since we, by nature, do not have up front contant consent from the recipients of these emails, these service providers are hesitant to work with us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Managing a high volume of emails requires a specialized skill set, there are companies that handle this kind of distribution. We've had discussions with these providers, and sending such large volumes of email can be quite expensive, in the range of five figures. As a non-profit organization run by volunteers, we simply don't have the budget for this kind of expenditure, and even if we did, we wouldn't be willing to allocate those funds in this manner. (If you are willing to [donate](https://www.divd.nl/donate) that kind of money, we can think of better ways to utilize it). Additionally, since we, by nature, do not have up front consent from the recipients of these emails, these service providers are hesitant to work with us.
```
Stray (odd) word.

### Does it help?

Lots of credentials are from so called [combo lists](https://scirge.com/glossary/combo-list). Credentials from different breaches, combined, traded and often of low quality. Most of the time these lists only contain a username and password and are devoid of any context like when the the credentials were "harvested", which platform, service or system they initially belonged to and where the breach occured.

> "When does being notified of a breach help, and when does it hurt? Without context, it's unlikely that a user can take any positive action. Does it help to know that you are now in 15 breaches instead of 14?"

Reviewer: Vanwaar de quotes?

Author: Die mogen weg :$

## Our solution

If we want to address cases of leaked credentials, we must do so in a specific manner.

### Context required

We will only process credentials if we can place them in a context. This means that, in addition to the username and password, we need more information to provide actionable advice with our notifications.

More context is better in this case. Think about:

> * What are the credentials used for?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* What service/url are the credentials initially for?
```

> * What are the credentials used for?

Reviewer: Deze zin betekent nu was anders. Een credenrial voor gmail jan gebruikt worden om in te breken in iets anders, maar wij kunnen dat niet weten.

Reviewer: Hij is hetzelfde gebleven dus nog niet resolved wat mij betreft.

> * How and when where the leaked credentials obtained?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* How, when, and where the leaked credentials obtained?
```

> * How and when was the leaked data obtained?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* How and when where the leaked credentials obtained?
```

> * How, when, and where the leaked credentials obtained?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* How, when, and where have the leaked credentials been obtained?
```
Zo, tongbreker (en vingerbreker)....
